The Ultimate Guide to hiring marketers
for B2B
[Music]
teams welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning founder
over at breaking B2B and today joining
me I've got Dan alram Dan is the VP
marketing at Steno he's also built
multiple marketing and demand gen teams
startup companies and Beyond Dan welcome
to the show sir how we doing thanks Sam
it is great to be here I am doing very
well how are you doing well thank you
sir yeah looking forward to this one I
was just saying to you before we hit
record this is a fresh topic for
breaking B2B we've not done much in the
way of hiring especially on the
marketing route so I'm excited to dive
in my weakness especially is operation
and marketing love marketing um
operations and hiring rather love
marketing love selling love creating
content but hiring an Ops is is
certainly a weak point so I'm going to
learn a ton and I'm sure everyone
watching and listening will
too so as you might have know we never
beat around the bush on this show we get
straight into the topic at hand so with
that said how does a B2B company know if
they're ready to to build out their
marketing team and expand on that
marketing engine how' you know if you're
ready um yeah okay so uh at Steno our
audience are uh attorneys lawyers and uh
I feel like I've I've adopted this this
Mantra from uh our audience of the
answer is always well it depends uh you
know it depends on what stage you're at
how big is your company where are you
you know what are you doing uh out in
the market um I think if you are a brand
you know you're very small you're a
startup you're a Founder that's out
there uh and you're just you you've got
a couple people the team uh it's your
job to be the marketer it's your job to
be Ops it's your job to be a whole lot
of different things and it's your job to
do that for as long as you possibly can
to keep your expenses down and focus on
what you need to do and then after that
it might not even be you hire marketing
team and I feel weird saying that as a
marketer because I'm always like no you
should you should you should hire me uh
but maybe you hire a chief of staff and
that Chief of Staff runs the roles of
your marketer and your you your VP of
sales and your other pieces until you
get to a point where it's like the
efficiencies are hitting a ceiling uh
you know you're not able to get into the
new markets you're not able to get out
there or you know you're having
difficulty with product Market fit uh
and you need somebody to come in and
help you define these things and maybe
tell you that you're just wrong uh and
that you need to reapo this you need to
you know everybody wants to go out after
Enterprises cuz that's where the huge
money is but like maybe your product
Market fit is the small business and you
need to be told that uh or the opposite
and this is what what happened when I
came in at Steno um you have clear
product Market fit but you're struggling
to articulate that value prop out there
um steno is wild like it's it's the
product Market fitti of the fit that I
have seen but uh as soon as I came in it
was very evident that nobody was saying
the same things we had different
salespeople that were from the industry
other court reporting agencies and they
were pitching it like a court reporting
agency we had others that were pitching
us like a tech company uh and we're sort
of a hybrid of the two and so it was
very clear that like oh we need product
marketing in here because we need to be
able to build that Matrix tell everybody
this is how we position ourselves this
is why we are different than everybody
else uh and I think if you are founder
if you are or you know CEO and you're
stting to think about uh bringing in a
marketing team um you need to make sure
that you also have you're counting for
the budget for headcount and programs uh
I think we see this pretty often that
they'll bring in somebody will bring in
a single Market or expect them to do
everything uh and once they pay that
person they realize oh we only have like
$110,000 to do any program so you're you
know you're paying a 100,000 Plus for a
marketer who is then spending less than
their salary you're not ready for
marketing if that's what you if what if
that's what you've got going
on you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google at breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft Tob SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me great Point great point so Le let's
break down a few of those points that
you got into there one of the first you
said I asked you when when are you ready
to hire a marketing team you said could
be to do with your efficiency how
efficient you are tell us a bit more
about what that means from a kind of B2B
stand Point sure I mean if we're talking
about uh you know you've got good
customer acquisition your sales team is
out there they are making the they are
making the sales but you're not seeing
that con like in the beginning you'll
see you'll start to see that constant
growth it'll be you wind rates will
continue to go up and revenue will
continue to go up and then there'll be a
sort of stagnation you've reached some
sort of you know uh uh plateau and sales
is just not able to get in the door on
more places uh they're or they're going
in and they're hearing oh well you know
what about these five competitors uh I
had you know I hadn't really heard of of
you guys before how are you positioned
you know how they're probably not going
to ask how are you positioned but you
know how do you fit in that uh in in in
the industry when you start to hear
those and your sales team is hitting
that that ceiling of their the revenue
is starting to slow the win rates are
starting to
Plateau that is that is a think a very
clear sign that like you need to bring
in marketing and you need to bring in
marketing not just to focus on like
Performance Based but you need brand
marketing at this point you need to
start that long-term establishment of of
who you are and building that mental
availability that will help your sales
team break through that Plateau almost
sounds like listening out for signals
from your prospects in the market like
you say maybe if competitors are
constantly being mentioned but you're
not you're not seeing your brand as much
as you hoped like you say your win rates
start dropping maybe inbound leads take
a hit and your sales team are kind of
getting frustrated that there's just
other options that are constantly Top
Choice and they always feel on the back
foot I can give an ex like in market
experience um at a previous company that
I was in
uh the way that we sold into companies
uh was sort of bottom up and so we could
get in and talk to the assistants or the
the the the uh secretaries or whomever
and they would be interested they would
be like yeah we can use your services
right but as soon as it got to the
actual point of like having to sign uh
senior leaders would say I haven't heard
of them I do know this other company
let's go with them and that was regular
like that was something like 40% of our
our Lo reasons that is a very clear sign
that sales isn't going to get in they're
not going to make that end game for you
you need more you need to be positioned
for those senior leaders even if you're
not selling directly to them they need
to know who you are they need to see
thought leadership stuff out there so
that when they have when they're brought
this they go oh yeah I know I know that
name uh that's fine we can use them U I
think what is what's the the term you
never get fired for hiring IBM or
something like that like you need to be
out there because people know the name
and recognize it and they don't feel bad
that they're going to be hiring this
this company well yeah that's it it's
it's all risk aversion isn't it it's all
risk aversion folks especially in larger
scale B2B corporations marketers want to
feel safe with their choice and I
suppose if they're investing uh
thousands and thousands of dollars which
isn't theirs which is their investors or
their whoever runs the company they want
to make sure that their job's not on
theine line because they invested a ton
into a piece of tech or a service that's
not going to cost them the job so yeah
get that um you raised a good point as
well just now just to wrap this segment
up that you should bear in mind that
you're going to need to set aside budget
for the headcount as well as the actual
programs or the initiatives or actually
the tactics or the strategies or the
channels that you're going to go down is
that something because I I'm pretty sure
that happens a lot judging by the amount
of running a running an SEO agency like
the amount of times I speak to marketers
that just have completely realistic
expectations about what's going to move
the needle from a budget perspective is
that something you see a lot where kind
of folks make that mistake maybe invest
all the cash into headcount and then
there's not much left to actually get
stuff done absolutely I I think I've
seen it at very small organizations that
are just hiring their first marketer or
their first two marketers and I've I've
seen it at larger organizations ones
that I've been in where we were just
wildly over the amount of people that we
need for the programs that we're running
and so you're suddenly spending you know
the majority of your money your budget
on the actual headcount and then they
have the those people then all have to
justify their jobs and try to get as
much done with as little as possible um
I I think if you are evaluating this and
evaluating a marketing team it's very
much like what
is you probably have to have a
conversation with somebody maybe a
consultant maybe somebody else of just
like where we are right now how much
money is it going to cost to get this
off the ground and what's it going to
cost in a year in two years uh cuz I
think a lot of the times you come in and
you're like okay well we built a
marketing team there's 10 people here
we're spending a million dollar a year
$2 million a year on the discretionary
programs
budget we hit a plat that's going to hit
a plateau you're going in a couple years
you're going to need more and more and
more so if you're not like if you don't
have the Buy in of the leadership team
of like this is how we build it and
where we're going to go in the long term
uh everybody's going to be
unhappy were you the first marketing
hire at your company I am the first
marketing hire at my company um in sort
of a sort of uh there was a marketing
team when they first started the company
they went all in on marketing and no in
on sales and that did not go anywhere uh
in especially in our particular industry
which is very sales L uh and so they
switched and got rid of all marketing
and went all in on sales and that went
very well very successful and then we
started to hit a plateau and it was very
evident that like incrementality of
marketing is going to help us here so I
was brought in to build a marketing team
uh a little over a year ago uh and I was
the sole marketer for about three months
before uh my first two hires started
which were uh product marketing and
field okay okay and yeah I'd be curious
to know like and this is very
situational depending I pose on how well
funded the company is the size and their
markets but is there a strategy you
recommend so in your company's case it
sounds like they got rid of the
marketing went sales Le realized they
had the bottle next you just outlined
and then went back to having a marketing
team starting with you like is there a
process that you think is sustainable
I.E should companies look to hire a VP
marketing and slowly get them to hire
internally or should it be a case of go
a bit more aggressive like is there a
best
play uh it depends uh which will be my
answer in so many different things I
think it often comes down to who you
hire and how you hire so uh there are
and I've seen this across LinkedIn and
other spheres
of there's this belief that when you're
at the VP or above level you're not
really in the weeds anymore it's your
job to be the strategic person which is
true like you should be the strategic
person and setting the vision but if you
are joining a small organization that is
building their marketing team for the
first time like I'm sorry you're you're
a tactical marketer uh and so my
strategy of coming in is like I will
handle all of the marketing I in my
first two weeks was writing rfps with
the sales team I was calling clients I
was calling prospects uh you know I was
setting everything up I was in canva
design designing ads and writing copy
and doing all of the things that
marketers have to do uh usually with a
team and my strategy of like who do I
hire and when comes to a point of like
when what do I know are my strengths my
strengths are not content marketing uh I
I I understand it I have a very good
vision for where I want it to go I am
not very good at implementing it so my
assumption was my first hire is probably
going to be content because I know it
works in this industry uh I know that
that's one of my big weaknesses and day
three on this job I opened up a wreck
for a product marketer because of what
we talked about before of I listened to
multiple sales reps pitches and they all
said different things about our Tech and
I realized that nobody has given them
the tools that they need to be on the
same page be talking about us in the
same way and sell us in the same way so
product marketing had to come in cuz I
could some of that but it's also a
weakness of mine and it's so important
to us as a
organization that it it needs to have
somebody dedicated to that time um and
field was the other aspect of that our
sales team was running all field uh
independently every sales rep could
spend their budget to go to events or
run trade show things but nobody was
sort of overseeing it and we were
spending quite a lot of money out in the
field so that needed somebody that could
own it and take it further and start to
centralize it so that we could be
efficient with our spend so my approach
to this is always like where where are
we going to have the biggest impact that
I can't do myself uh and then that is
your foundation to then continue to
expand yeah yeah yeah I mean those are
some sound tips listening to your sales
team or at least listening to to
prospecting sales cools feedback
directly from the sales team as well is
you can never go too far wrong if you're
getting a a istic view if you're
listening to the market if you're
listening to the sales team and kind of
putting those two together they're
always going to give you a a reasonable
idea of what's going on um oh yeah and
big fan of like you say understanding
where where you Excel understanding
where your weak spots are and hitting
those like that that makes perfect
sense if you're a if you're a siloed
marketer you're not doing marketing
right you need to be one of the most
cross- collaborative teams uh in in the
organization because that's the only way
you know externally internally what's
going on who is talking about it where
where are our biggest weaknesses what's
the journey that people are where the
gaps in the journey there's no way to do
it if you're just if you're just sitting
in marketing and doing nothing
else yeah for sure for sure and when it
comes to like when you've identified
those weaknesses and when you are when
you've outlined what you want to the
first hirees you want to bring in what
what should that process look like
uh the way I like to approach my first
hires is looking for um a t-shaped
marketer somebody that can go wide has
experience in multiple things but has an
expertise um so the product marketer
that I brought in uh has run a marketing
team as a small team and has done all of
the different pieces but she excels in
the product marketing aspect so I knew
that I am going to have to be doing
writing emails I'm you know I've been
writing emails I've been doing these
different pieces I do need some support
in that so the first hires are going to
have to be able to handle multiple
aspects of it and be comfortable with
sort of the ambiguity of like your job
is product marketing but also you're
kind of a Content marketer also you're
kind of doing demand gen with me uh and
you need to know that like that's not
the end like we are going to bring in
people as we scale to take those back so
that you don't have to keep doing those
yeah uh so you need self-starters and
problem solvers uh and people that are
very comfortable with change especially
at small scaling startups uh things
processes change uh they need to be
comfortable with ambiguity of like I
there's no plan here there's no like
there's no processes built there's no
Sops we don't have a sauna with all of
our project management going going on
you and I we're going to have to build
that as we are trying to get this all
going at the same time um so people that
are very comfortable with that and have
not just gotten into one role and
they've been in that role and they don't
they're not comfortable stepping out of
it yeah yeah I mean working in a startup
is so vastly different to a mid-market
company or even Enterprise where
processes are just so much slower moving
and everything takes time there strict
procedures so many sign offs whereas in
if you're in a startup like it sounds
like you are used to just like me like
everything's moving 100 miles hour
you're basically involved in in Touching
everything overseeing everything
involved in everything like you said
when you were brought in as a VP
marketing you weren't directing people
you were getting done and yeah so
that that is the angle I come from as
well which I enjoy for my sins um a
glutton for punishment I guess but I
think being transparent and explaining
to those hires like it will start like
this but it will grow out as well as is
equally important I think that I think
that is an incredibly good point of like
the transparency in the hiring process
is incredibly important I told everyone
that was coming in uh that like you are
going to be in the weeds and the weeds
are going to be deep there is a lot to
get done we are building a marketing
team for an organization that's growing
at like 100% per year uh and all the
other things are established there's
already a big sales team there's already
an Ops Team there's already all these
different things so it's just us that
are the newbies that are growing this
thing so there's going to be high
expectations of
deliverables while you're trying to set
a strategy while you're trying to build
all of these processes in the back end
so that a year from now we're not in the
same you know situation of like we don't
have templates for things we don't know
who goes to what uh so being very honest
is is incredibly important because
you're not just interviewing them
they're interviewing you and if they
aren't comfortable with that and they
don't have to say it in the interview
but it's if you know they they might bow
out and I've had multiple people bow out
of uh of of the interview process with
me when I explained how much work
there's going to be that there is a
light there's a light that we're headed
towards it's there I promise but like
it's going to be a lot of work to get
there uh you need to make sure that they
understand that because you don't want a
bad hire or you know whatever the word
is now that they're using like uh it's
just not a good fit uh because that then
takes away time that you are going to
end up having to do the same thing over
again it's not all that different from a
from running a sales school is it really
if you're transparent about who you're a
good fit and who you're a poor fit for
in in my world clients churn but in the
hiring world then you whoever you
recruit as part as your marketing term
team is going to churn because they
expectations were unrealistic they
thought they might have thought they're
going to sit and have an easy job
ticking boxes and approving spreadsheets
when really they've got to get their
hands dirty and actually get the work
done and perhaps do stuff that's a bit
outside their comfort zone and maybe
learn some stuff on the fly or maybe
work to tyght deadlines and whatever it
may be but like you say if you set those
guidelines up front it's it's always
going to be be the best move
for we we have a lot of B2B marketers
that tune in but perhaps for any Revenue
leaders or Founders that are listening
or watching and maybe they're perhaps
considering hiring a first mark marketer
whatever that was a a marketing leader
VP marketing CMO whatever that plan is
are there any tips that you advise on
what they should be looking out for what
they should be asking if they're perhaps
not so in the weeds like you and I are
yeah I think it's it's sort of twofold
Revenue leaders often look at marketing
as um sales at scale and it's not and
you need to acknowledge that it does not
operate in the same way as a as a sales
organiz gation especially if you are
going after larger organizations you are
going after the Enterprise the work that
you do as marketing is not you're not
seeing the results this quarter you're
not you might not be seeing the results
next quarter uh unlike a sales rep that
might see those results very quickly if
it's like you know they're able to
impact quickly marketing especially if
you're trying to build your brand trying
to get that awareness this is going to
be down the road uh so you need to be
comfortable setting the expect
understanding the expectations of what
marketing can and can't do and also
setting that in your in your interview
process uh and talking about it openly
of like here are here is our short-term
expectations and here is our long-term
expectations and you need to align that
with whatever marketing leader that
you're interviewing with that they are
also coming to you with like their
understanding of short-term versus
longterm and that they are approaching
you of like they're not just promising
you a bunch of leads uh and I I I heard
this in my hiring process uh post hire
uh of the other people that that were
interviewed and many of them were just
like yeah I can hit these lead goals and
Lead goals lead goals lead goals uh and
I was the one of the few that was like
okay that's unrealistic uh we can't hit
that type of lead goal and here is why
and here is what we will do for a
long-term approach that we will get away
from necessarily focusing on leads and
we get more into building communities
and building these spheres of influence
um you need to look at somebody that is
able to understand sort of both aspects
and push back on you uh that if you are
setting things that are unrealistic I
feel like this is why CMOS and and heads
of marketing have such short tenure
they're just accepting what happens in
the interview because they want the job
or they need the job and they're just
both sides are coming at this with
totally different expectations of what
it's really going to be and then you
know 12 months later you're getting a
new head of marketing uh you need to be
aligned and you need to have very open
and honest conversations like we were
just talking of hiring your marketers
Revenue leaders need to have those open
and honest
conversations no that's right that's
right and I think that's smart as well
to one for the the market to themselves
to to push back if something's
unrealistic or not feasible ever it may
be whether it's lead targets or whatever
it is um then also like you said
whoever's running the interview I
suppose to have realistic expectations
of what actually can be done
um what's your
advice going along the same vein what's
what's your advice to actually sus out
because I've always struggled we've
talked about on the show some time ago
about interviewing salese and how that
can be an absolute game in itself
because nearly every salesp people can
talk the talk an interview gets to
actually prospecting whether that's cold
cooling cold whatever they're C Outreach
is they they might say I prefer to get
referrals or prefer inbound leads it's
like you were a completely different
person on the intervie like now you're
not picking up the phone to generate
leads or whatever it may be and they're
not they're not prospecting or closing
or whatever the weakness is but with
marketers obviously completely different
kettle of fish especially if they're
drilled into an industry whether it's
product marketing field marketing events
demand gen whatever it may be
how do you check if they're actually if
they the proofs in the pudding if they
can actually deliver what they say they
can I think there's a couple approaches
here um one I am I
am I am not a huge fan of practical
exercises like some companies want to do
a practical exercise for every level
that they're hiring and that's kind of
ridiculous I think it's probably
worthwhile if somebody's going to be
leading a department uh and give them
something that they need to do that's
tangible that you can see and like
understand and make them talk through it
uh so I had to do one for Steno uh and
build out a marketing plan and then
essentially defend it against a panel of
uh Executives and Senior leaders uh and
I think that really helps them get an
understanding one how do you how does
how does this marketer approach uh your
organization your
industry if they are if they are new to
an industry then how do they approach
learning about it in that sort of short
amount of time I would never expect them
to get it all right uh especially if
they're new to the industry but
understanding how they're approaching it
is really important uh to knowing if
they're going to be able to be in the
role I think if you are a leader that is
hiring a marketer and you don't have any
marketing experience you've never done
it you've never hired for it and you
don't have anybody on your team that
does it might be worthwhile bringing in
a consultant
uh that does know marketing and can sit
on and be a part of it if you are VC
backed or PE backed you probably have
that consultant through your investor
network uh you can bring in your you
know the cgo of your VC firm or or uh
you know some other marketing leader
that they've got in there just call them
in have them be a part of the process uh
because I think it is important in the
same way that salespeople can BS sales
because they if they are a good
salesperson they should be able to do
that I think a lot of marketers can do
that too there's a lot of terms and
things
LED L especially if you've got chat gbt
you know you can talk about anything
that you want uh so having somebody that
has some experience I think is
worthwhile when you bringing in your
leadership uh and then after that like I
you know directors maybe need a
practical exercise below that I am I am
very anti- exercise and get give me your
results give me a portfolio of what you
have done let me see exactly what it is
I was going to say do you ask for much
in the way of evidence I do yeah um I
ask for uh some kind of portfolio of
work at least give me some of the
campaigns that worked give me a couple
campaigns that didn't and your learnings
from them um in my interview process I
ask very long- winded uh and sort of
ambiguous uh questions uh here and there
in interspersed because I want to
understand how you approach a question
like that as well
because some people will then stop
they'll ask me to break it down I want
to answer this part of the question this
part of the question this part of the
question make sure I get it all right
other people make the assumption that
they fully understood the question and
then they miss part of what I asked in
the middle of it um all of these are
kind of like ways that you can start to
sus out how do they approach these
things have they walked the walk uh how
you know if they are a marketing leader
and they have to we deal with the sales
organization or other ex cutive
organizations those people are going to
ask a million questions or they're going
to have a million things that they want
done you are going to have to break that
down you are going to have to approach
it in a you know a process where you can
step by step get it done uh so in the
interview process I like to sort of
simulate what other parts of my
organization how they're going to
approach you yeah yeah I suppose like
depending on the the speciality or the
niche of the marketer I suppose you
could get them to walk you through kind
of from a tactical level like how
they've had certain wins and like you
said I think fails is nice as well
because it's not all we we're all
messing up all the time and if they can
walk you through that and and what they
learn I think something I'd look out for
as well especially is I love running
marketing experiments at breaking B2B we
try stupid stuff all the time and see
what works what doesn't but I think if
you can get someone that's actively
doing something of their own initiative
as well IE I don't know maybe there were
a company before and the company was UN
sure about starting a podcast but of
their own will in their spare time maybe
they interviewed like some of the ABM
account lists like the top 50 accounts
and they just started that they they I
don't know they invested in Riverside or
Zoom or streamyard and they just fired
up and started interviewing them and
doing it and then they showed the exec
te like well like this person's like
gone off their own back done all this
stuff like that's really impressive I
think if someone can take the time to
experiment or it doesn't have to be
something for their company it could be
their own thing they've started their
own show they they started posting on
LinkedIn they started a YouTube channel
they started I don't know creating
content with Focus clients whatever but
they've done something off their own
back with a hypothesis to see if it
works I think that's a really nice trait
of a marketer that's a bit more creative
I love that yeah and uh our director of
content was you know recognized that AI
is taking the job of many content
marketers uh and so took it upon herself
separately on her own uh of building out
um how to use AI in her job search and a
whole bunch of other pieces and sort of
walked me through like what she's been
doing to learn Ai and get really dig
down deep into it because she recognize
that that's going to be a backbone of a
a Content team at in the now let alone
in the future uh and so you know seeing
somebody take that initiative I think is
a huge part of I I love that yeah 100%
Mark is AR going to like this but do you
because they might get fired um do you
recommend like doing a trial period with
new hires because I I imagine especially
kind of newer newer businesses or
startups that haven't had a marketing
team or engine before probably even more
risk of us like what does that look like
um are there any recommendations around
that because we all know that you could
hire someone but a few months into it
they just might not be the right fit for
whatever reason our fault or their fault
or somewhere in
between um yeah I think so I uh we've
taken kind of this approach um through
some uh agencies that we have used so um
you know there's there's a whole bunch
of the sort of marketers for higher uh
kind of agencies out there where you can
get them in part-time uh and see what
their work is like and then start adding
more and more hours we've done that with
a couple of people especially on the
graphic design side of you know we have
a very particular brand and it's kind of
weird um you know we've got rainbow
essential like gradient colors on
everything in an industry background
yeah oh yeah exactly and it's in in a
very professional like you know we're
going after lawyers and all of our
competitors are blue and white uh and
you know they button up everything and
so we we take the approach of like we're
a sort of humans first kind of marketing
of just like this is who we are we are
fun we are exciting we are different but
that's hard to grasp for some brand
managers for some designers for some
writers
and so being able to sort of test them
out you know throw them in and see how
they do with it uh we do that with some
content writers as well uh and see how
they handle it and then we have sort of
a place where we expect that we will be
able to hire them full-time um if you're
looking at at marketing leaders uh I
have never been a fractional uh uh
leader so I can't I don't know that I
could particularly speak to it but I do
know quite a few people that have been
fractional CMOS or or or such um and I
think that that could be worthwhile for
some smaller organizations because you
shouldn't hire a
CMO if you are a small organization like
I think a lot of places are just like oh
well that's what you do and you hire
that but like you can get the expertise
from a fractional person uh and helps
you scale until you get to a point where
it is worthwhile bringing that person in
fulltime yeah that's a good point I
wasn't even thinking that actually I was
thinking more um in terms of like trial
periods like I don't know if that's I
never done a trial period so I I can't I
don't know that I can speak to it those
those are the only ways that I've sort
of approached it um so I I don't want to
give anybody bad advice on something
I've never done no I appreciate that I
appreciate that and then the last point
we wanted to cover was using agencies
which I think you've just touched on
versus agency versus hiring in house
because I think you've got some opinions
on that yeah I do uh and I think some of
our agencies have opinions on me and how
I approach as well uh I think I've seen
a whole bunch on LinkedIn recently of
people that are I don't know if they're
trolling for engagement but they're just
like agencies are awful and you should
never use them they're all bsing you uh
and you should only hire people in house
because then you can keep Taps on them
uh and I think that's wildly wrong uh as
I think I think a lot of things on
LinkedIn that I spot as I advance in my
career just like why that's not what
okay
clearly I need to just remove you from
people I'm following um but agencies I
think are incredibly helpful uh
especially early on there's a lot of
stuff that needs to get done that you
aren't going to be able to do or it's
going to take you a while to hire in for
those roles you don't want to just rush
in and hire a director of demand gen uh
just because you need that person you
can get agencies that have high
expertise uh they can help you test
channels before you're committing to
having that person that's a big part of
it for me uh we try to expand into a
bunch of different channels especially
as we're going into new markets I don't
know how those are going to work out and
if I hire somebody to just own out of
home uh that may really hurt me in the
long run because uh that didn't work out
for us and I don't need that person uh
in house um I think if you are scaling
very quickly so like we are obviously as
I I mentioned you know the company is
larger there's the the other
organizations in the company are
established so marketing has to scale
very quickly so we brought in agencies
to handle uh paid Media or or uh you
know our email and we've had some
graphic design agencies and we've had
all these different pieces to help
support until we feel that like there is
a consistent amount of work here and we
need somebody to be in that role that is
owning it and they may still have agency
support um we we we adopt wildly adopt a
hybrid model uh with our agencies so
there's a lot of overflow work or
there's a lot of execution and tactical
work and we'll keep the strategy inhouse
and then we'll bring in agencies to
handle the execution um I think it just
it gives you a lot of flexibility I
think that's smart really like a lot of
it is from what you've from what I
understand testing out especially if
you're bringing in marketers that aren't
generalists but are coming in to own a
certain program or certain strategy or
certain Channel like it kind of makes
sense to test it out whether that is
with a contractor or an agency see if
it's actually a viable channel channel
after a good test whether that's 3
months 6 months 9 months whatever if it
does well great maybe we scale out with
the agency or maybe we hire in house if
it's if not we cut it we learn we move
on onto the next thing like I think that
smart is kind of similar to how we're
building breaking B2B we basically have
a bunch of trusted contractors getting
to the point now where we may have to
hire our first operations and kind of
account management side of things but
very much the way that we've kind of
grown here so far so I I think that's a
smart move especially for more kind of
startup gear organizations yeah and I
think and we talked about this a little
bit before we started recording but um
if you are going to go a hybrid model uh
this is a this is a pitfall that I fell
into uh we had a quite a few agencies
and I don't think I I treated them like
vendors like agencies and keeping them
sort of at at arms length of like we
give you work you do that work and then
you know we move on and do other stuff
so we are sort of switching that in 2025
and getting a a much more uh integrated
uh approach to how we do our agencies
now that we know that like this is the
path we are not going to do everything
in-house we are planning uh you know
monthly sort of summits between our
agencies if they all interact in the
same ways uh so we're we utilize uh an
agency for for marketing mixed modeling
uh and an art agency that helps support
demand Chen who they will end up working
together because a lot of the stuff that
the demand jet agency is doing very much
impacts uh how we do our our uh modeling
so having them talk to each other and
not having us just be the the
intermediary where we miss things or we
don't realize that these things are
important or we just don't do them uh it
if you're going to go a hybrid approach
you need to integrate a lot more and
really think of them as partners uh
rather than vendors and agencies uh and
uh I'll I'll I'll put this as a blanket
apology to the vendors that and agencies
that I have worked with in the past
where I did not understand that and I
did not treat them as such uh and you
know we had to part ways because we had
different expectations of what that was
supposed to be uh and trying to learn
from that and this is like this hybrid
approach and how we want to bring it all
together is sort of I think the only way
that you can really effectively utilize
agencies and inhouse people I think you
raised a good point at the start of
conversation like this is going off on a
bit of a tangent but good marketers like
yourself push back on it against
unrealistic expectations I think it's
the same with agencies though like us if
we're if work we're working with a
prospect that's saying like I don't know
quarter 1 we want to do x amount of
inbound signups or demos or booked calls
through SEO um within this crazy time
period I say look that's completely
unrealistic like I'm not running a paid
campaign for you here like you've not
done much in the way of organic search
we're going to have to build a solid
foundation that's ridiculous like we can
do this this is realistic but otherwise
you're better off going to a sales rep
that's going to promise you the world
and not deliver because that ain't me
yeah exactly I think expectations are
important on all sides and being being
able to push back and being comfortable
to push back uh you know those you're
never going to have a successful
relationship if you're not comfortable
talking about some of the tough
things yeah personally or with vendors
definitely definitely just a just a good
business lesson to end on so with that
Dan thanks very much for for the
conversation really useful not just for
myself but I'm sure everyone tuning in
that's thinking about building out their
marketing team so please do tell us more
about how one tuning in can learn more
about yourself connect with you anything
you like to share sure absolutely I uh
I'm pretty active on LinkedIn feel free
to follow me there uh Dan malgren uh you
know uh just uh connect with me say you
found me through uh breaking B2B uh and
I'll be happy to chat with you about any
marketing or Beyond I like kayaking and
Hiking so you know we can we can we can
expand it beyond that if you're a if you
happen to be a lawyer watching the
breaking B2B podcast uh steno is your
court reporting agency sto.com check us
out we are very clearly the
best awesome got to be some BB marketers
from law firms I reckon got to be there
has to be got to be drop us a message if
so it' be awesome to hear from you so
thanks very much Dan really enjoyed the
chat absolutely thanks for having me on
Sam cheers sir and as always if you
enjoyed the episode why not join
thousands of Legends enjoying my unusual
B2B marketing weekday emails for some
lesser known tips fresh podcast updates
as well as unusual experiments around
SEO and B2B marketing head over to
Breaking bb.com hit that newsletter tab
so with that I shall catch you on the
next one thanks very much for tuning in